BD-3931 Add details about anonymous users (#8998)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/data/user_data_collection/user_profile_lifecycle/anonymous_users.md

- Complete a user’s profile when they log in, so that you can cancel messaging on other platforms (such as not sending a “free shipping on 1st app order” message when the user already has made app orders)
- Engage with users who show an intent to exit by encouraging them to create a profile, checkout their cart, or take another action

## How it works

> When a user first uses Braze on a device, they are considered "anonymous". This user will remain anonymous until an `external_id` is assigned to that user's profile by a `changeUser` method ([web](https://js.appboycdn.com/web-sdk/latest/doc/modules/braze.html#changeuser), [iOS](https://appboy.github.io/appboy-ios-sdk/docs/interface_appboy.html#ac8b369b40e15860b0ec18c0f4b46ac69), [Android](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-android-sdk/javadocs/com/appboy/Appboy.html#changeUser-java.lang.String-)), and then will become known. Once an anonymous user becomes known, they can't reverted to an anonymous user, but uninstalling and reinstalling an app will generate a new anonymous user ID for that user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you [integrate the Braze SDK]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/sdk_integration/), users who launch your app for the first time will be considered "anonymous" until you call the `changeUser` method and assign them an `external_id` through the Braze SDK. For a full walkthrough, see [Setting User IDs]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/analytics/setting_user_ids/).

Once a user is assigned an `external_id`, you can't revert them to an anonymous user&#8212;however, by uninstalling and reinstalling your app they'll be considered anonymous again until `changeUser` is called.
```

> ### When users are identified on new devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If a user is identified on a device where they have never been identified before, all their previous activity on that device as an anonymous user will be saved and linked to their newly identified profile. This means that all their attributes, events, and history will be attributed to them, even though they were anonymous at the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a previously-identified user starts a session on a new device, all of their "anonymous" activity will automatically sync to their existing profile after you call `changeUser` on that device. This includes any attributes, events, or history collected during the session on the new device.
```

## Assigning user aliases

> Anonymous users don’t have `external_ids`, but you can assign anonymous user profiles with an alternative identifier: [user aliases]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/user_data_collection/user_profile_lifecycle/#user-aliases). This allows you to take similar actions on an anonymous user profile. For example, you can use the Braze API to log events and attributes associated with anonymous users, and target those users in your messaging with the segmentation filter [External User ID is blank]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segmentation_filters#external-user-id).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although anonymous users don’t have `external_ids`, you can assign them a [user alias]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/user_data_collection/user_profile_lifecycle/#user-aliases) instead. With user aliases, you can:

- Use the Braze API to log events and attributes associated with anonymous users
- Use the [External User ID is blank]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segmentation_filters#external-user-id) segmentation filter  to target anonymous users in your messaging

For more information, see [Braze SDK: Setting a user alias]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/analytics/setting_user_ids/#setting-a-user-id).
```

> Anonymous users don’t have `external_ids`, but you can assign anonymous user profiles with an alternative identifier: [user aliases]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/user_data_collection/user_profile_lifecycle/#user-aliases). This allows you to take similar actions on an anonymous user profile. For example, you can use the Braze API to log events and attributes associated with anonymous users, and target those users in your messaging with the segmentation filter [External User ID is blank]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segmentation_filters#external-user-id).

Reviewer: Additional question here: if someone can assign an anonymous user an `external_id` via `changeUser()` method, what is the benefit of assigning them a user alias _instead_? I feel like a 1-liner about the use case for this instead of `external_id` would be helpful.

Author: @raghavnarain3

Reviewer 2: you should assign an alias when you want to add other identifiers to the user and don't know what their external id is (e.g they are not logged in)

- Complete a user’s profile when they log in, so that you can cancel messaging on other platforms (such as not sending a “free shipping on 1st app order” message when the user already has made app orders)
- Engage with users who show an intent to exit by encouraging them to create a profile, checkout their cart, or take another action

## How it works

> When a user first uses Braze on a device, they are considered "anonymous". This user will remain anonymous until an `external_id` is assigned to that user's profile by a `changeuser` method ([web](https://js.appboycdn.com/web-sdk/latest/doc/modules/braze.html#changeuser), [iOS](https://appboy.github.io/appboy-ios-sdk/docs/interface_appboy.html#ac8b369b40e15860b0ec18c0f4b46ac69), [Android](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-android-sdk/javadocs/com/appboy/Appboy.html#changeUser-java.lang.String-)), and then will become known. Once an anonymous user becomes known, they can't reverted to an anonymous user, but uninstalling and reinstalling an app will generate a new anonymous user ID for that user. 

Reviewer 2: i think `changeuser` should be `changeUser`

### When users are identified on new devices

If a user is identified on a device where they **have never** been identified before, all their previous activity on that device as an anonymous user will be saved and linked to their newly identified profile. This means that all their attributes, events, and history will be attributed to them, even though they were anonymous at the time.

### When users are identified on old devices

> If a user is identified on a device where they **have been** identified before, previous activity that was already sent to the server from the anonymous user on that device will be merged into the identified profile and fill in the [respective fields]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_users_merge/#merge-behavior). Fields that already exist on the identified profile won't be overwritten.

Reviewer 2: i don't know if this is necessary. once they have been identified on a device, the device cannot go back to having an anonymous user.

> If a user is identified on a device where they **have been** identified before, any previous activity that was already sent to the server from the anonymous user on that device will become "orphaned". In other words, that activity won't be linked to any future users. These "orphaned" users aren't included in user counts and won't receive any messages. This is because their activity isn't associated with an identified user, so there's no way to attribute their actions to a specific user.

Reviewer 3: Won't we merge the fields from the anonymous user that don't already exist on the identified user?

Author: I pulled that info from the [SF Knowledge Base article](https://braze.lightning.force.com/lightning/r/Knowledge__kav/ka0VP000000Ir5tYAC/view). On the other hand, [this page](https://www.braze.com/docs/api/endpoints/user_data/post_users_merge/#merge-behavior) aligns with what you've said.

Should I update the proposed edit to clarify that: information that doesn't already exist on the identified user will be merged in, and the remaining information will be "orphaned"? Or am I understanding this wrong?

Reviewer 3: Unfortunately I don't have access to Salesforce, but I would guess that the information in that KB article might be out of date. Unless there is some nuance with the SDK that I am not aware of, my understanding is that it should work similar to [the /users/identify API endpoint](https://braze.com/docs/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_identify/#request-parameters) which will merge the users by default. It might be a good idea to double check with the SDKs team, but [their documentation appears to also agree](https://js.appboycdn.com/web-sdk/latest/doc/modules/braze.html#changeuser):

> However, if you identify a user which _has_ been identified in another app, any history which was already flushed to the server for the anonymous user on this device will be merged into the identified user. Any fields that already exist on the identified user will not be overwritten, and the merge is limited to the fields listed [here](https://www.braze.com/docs/api/endpoints/user_data/post_users_merge/).

## Assigning user aliases

> Anonymous users don’t have `external_ids`, but you can assign anonymous user profiles with an alternative identifier: [user aliases]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/user_data_collection/user_profile_lifecycle/#user-aliases). This allows you to take the same actions on an anonymous user profile as if they were identified by `external_ids`. For example, you can use the Braze API to log events and attributes associated with anonymous users, and target those users in your messaging with the segmentation filter [External User ID is blank]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segmentation_filters#external-user-id).

Reviewer 2: there is some differentiation between external_id and alias. adding an alias allows you to update this user through the REST API

After you [integrate the Braze SDK]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/sdk_integration/), users who launch your app for the first time will be considered "anonymous" until you call the `changeUser` method and assign them an `external_id` through the Braze SDK. For a full walkthrough, see [Setting User IDs]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/analytics/setting_user_ids/).

Once a user is assigned an `external_id`, you can't revert them to an anonymous user&#8212;however, by uninstalling and reinstalling your app they'll be considered anonymous again until `changeUser` is called.

If a previously-identified user starts a session on a new device, all of their "anonymous" activity will automatically sync to their existing profile after you call `changeUser` on that device. This includes any attributes, events, or history collected during the session on the new device.

## Assigning user aliases

Although anonymous users don’t have `external_ids`, you can assign them a [user alias]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/user_data_collection/user_profile_lifecycle/#user-aliases) instead. With user aliases, you can:

- Use the Braze API to log events and attributes associated with anonymous users

> - Use the [External User ID is blank]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segmentation_filters#external-user-id) segmentation filter  to target anonymous users in your messaging

Author: ```suggestion
- Use the [External User ID is blank]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segmentation_filters#external-user-id) segmentation filter to target anonymous users in your messaging
```
